= factory_girl-preload

We all love Rails fixtures because they're fast, but we hate to deal with YAML/CSV/SQL files. Here enters Factory Girl (FG).

Now, you can easily create records by using predefined factories. The problem is that hitting the database everytime to create records is pretty slow. And believe me, you'll feel the pain when you have lots of specs.

So here enters Factory Girl Preload (FGP). You can define which factories will be preloaded, so you don't have to recreate it every time (that will work for 99.37% of the time, according to statistics I just made up).

== Installation

  gem install factory_girl-preload

== Usage

I'm focusing Rails 3 + RSpec 2 stack, so I can't really guarantee that it will work on other setups. Here's how you get started:

Add both FG and FGP to your Gemfile:

  source :rubygems
  gem "rails", "3.0.6"
  gem "mysql2", "~> 0.2.7"

  group :test, :development do
    gem "rspec-rails", "~> 2.5.0"
    gem "factory_girl", "~> 1.3.3"
    gem "factory_girl-preload", "~> 0.1.0"
  end

On <tt>spec/spec_helper.rb</tt> file, make sure that transactional fixtures are enabled. Here's is my file without all those RSpec comments:

  ENV["RAILS_ENV"] ||= "test"
  require File.expand_path("../../config/environment", __FILE__)
  require "rspec/rails"

  Dir[Rails.root.join("spec/support/**/*.rb")].each {|f| require f}

  RSpec.configure do |config|
    config.use_transactional_fixtures = true
    config.mock_with :rspec
  end

Create your fixtures on <tt>spec/support/factories.rb</tt>. You may have something like this:

  Factory.sequence :email do |n|
    "john#{n}@doe.com"
  end

  Factory.sequence :username do |n|
    "john#{n}"
  end

  Factory.sequence :public_key do |n|
    File.read(Rails.root.join("spec/fixtures/hash.rsa")) + n.to_s
  end

  Factory.define :user do |f|
    f.name "John Doe"
    f.email { Factory.next(:email) }
    f.username { Factory.next(:username) }
    f.password "test"
    f.password_confirmation "test"
  end

  Factory.define :projects do |f|
    f.name "My Project"
    f.association :user
  end

Finally, you can create your preloadable factories. Put those on <tt>spec/support/preloadable_factories.rb</tt>:

  Factory.preload do
    factory(:john) { Factory(:user) }
    factory(:myapp) { Factory(:project, :user => users(:john)) }
  end

Like Rails fixtures, FGP will define methods for each model. You can use it on your examples and alike.

  require "spec_helper"

  describe User do
    let(:user) { users(:john) }

    it "returns john's record" do
      users(:john).should be_an(User)
    end

    it "returns myapp's record" do
      projects(:myapp).user.should == users(:john)
    end
  end

Easy and, probably, faster!

== Maintainer

* Nando Vieira (http://nandovieira.com.br)

== License

(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
